---
layout: post
title: "Day 3 - Counting Aces + Mini Issues"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
Today I set out to just continue my progress with the primary fucntion. I wanted to finish the hit/stand part of my function which would
then put me in a very comfortable spot to finish on time. I also wanted to organize my notebook a bit more and add more comments, because
in the chaotic scramble to get work done you kind of neglect those things.

---

### What I Actually Did
While I did start out by working out the hit/stand part of my game, I quickly realized I had overlooked something that would need to be
relooked at, which was the way aces worked. I knew that they could by 1 or 11 but I thought it would be much easier to implement that into code. However, I decided to make a new function called calculate_total that also took into account aces, up to two cards at a time, which is the max you'll need. While it is does work for the original dealing of the player's cards, it gets harder as the player keeps hitting and changing the possibilities of the total with aces. After I finished that I briefly worked on formatting/organization for my functions.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I'm learning that this is going to be a grueling project almost soley because of the aces. Even though it's very unlikely, I have to
account for the possibility that the player/dealer gets 3 or even 4 aces. I'm considering simply leaving coding for that possibility for
last because then I can get a functional code before the nitpicky stuff. I also need to dedicate serious hours this weekend in order to  be able to finish this on time.

---

### What's Next

In the coming couple of days, I will prioritize the main function and write a code that accounts for most cases, because then if I have
time I can come back and account for the possibility of 3 or 4 aces in one hand.
