---
layout: post
title: "Day 2 - Progress"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
Today I set out to get some serious progress done on my project that would set me up for success going into the weekend. Primarily I was loooking to solve the issue of repurposing the code from previous trainings. While they did serve as a helpful structure they needed significant changing to aid in my blackjack game. I was excited to try how all my functions work together as one. One question I wanted to answer was how hard was the final function going to be, which compiled all the other ones.


---

### What I Actually Did
Today I changed my dealing function to accept a "user" input (dealer or player) and number of cards dealt. Implementing the user is a big deal because it's important to keep track of who is drawing cards because the things they are allowed to do by the rules of the game varies based on that. I also created a betting function with an unordinary requirement. The bet needs to be at least 20% of the player's money. Then I started in the bigger function to create a stand or hit system. I'm realizing that it might be hepful to move the stand or hit into the dealing function, but that's something I have to think through more deeply tomorrow and alter then. 


---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I learned that when I combine all my functions in one they don't always work in synchrony like you want them to. So you need to get ahead quickly so you leave a couple days to debug. I'm realizing that the coding portion might not be super hard, and I might not have to learn any new complex thing, but creating a cohesive project is a struggle in its own right. For example, when I implemented dealing into my primary function I also have to account for the deck and the fact that it resets when you rerun the function. So, again, this stresses the importance of getting ahead quickly and leaving yourself time to make the code more coehsive, so that any odd bugs aren't going to be bothering you on the last day.


---

### What's Next

In the next stage of my project the main thing I want to commit to is spending lots of time on this. While I do think the remaining work is possible, the "bulk" of the blackjack code or the thing that puts it all together is going to take a while for me to get right. So as I tackle that hopefully I can keep my sanity, work through the bugs, and come out with a complete project.
