---
layout: post
title: "Day 1 - Getting Started"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
Today my goal was to just make progress with the division of my problem into seperate functions and speicifically plot out my mini functions. I also wanted to see how the mini functions would connect in the main function, because my code would change depending on that. For example, if I wanted to shuffle and deal in one function I would have to find a way to make them seperate things, because in the main function I couldn't call that function and have it be shuffling the cards and dealing at the same time. This would allow me to solve the problem of having to figure out things as I went along. I was excited to use my previous code from trainings because it eleminates some unncessary work. 

---

### What I Actually Did

So today I copy and pasted previous code from trainings into my document, finished my instructions function, and plotted how I want the functions to connect together and what I need to alter from the code I copy and pasted. I discovered that it might be easier to just have the shuffle function just create the deck instead of having to put in a deck variable into the function every time. Something that is constantly changing is how complex I want to make the code, because sometimes I feel freaked out about the time constraints, but other times I feel inspired to add unique things to my function like a "cheat" button that the player can use.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

During class and during the mission, we learned about simplifying the work you have to do. In the case of the mission, it was by using sets. Now it has influenced me to look for areas in my code that I can simplify and make my life easier.

---

### What's Next

In the coming days, I hope to start the bulk of my code which is the player where there is user input and it's more complicated than just writing instructions or shuffling a deck.
