---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

Looking back what piece of advice for someone beginning this work is that if you want to succeed in this class you have to learn and
practice starting your work early. If you're given two weeks to do a mission, start it as soon as your made aware of the assignment,
not near the due date. Another thing that is important is learning to "enjoy" the solutions. When you're struggling with something and
come to a solution cherishing it makes programming more enjoyable, especially during the final project where you have lots of mini bugs.
In terms of the final project, I would say to actually use the blog posts as a chance to reflect on the work you did that day and see 
how much work you have left to do. The blog posts aren't something you neccessarily need to do every day (which I didn't fully realize)
since some days you are literally doing/solving the same problems.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

During this course I learned a lot of foundational concepts for python and programming in general. But more importantly for me, I
learned about what it means to be on top of your work and set yourself up for success. One thing I improved throughout the year was
starting my work early and taking stress off myself that way. Another thing I learned is to just stick with it and have belief. When I first started I was very lost and was convinced this was going to be an extremly hard class. Even though this course was still challenging, I am very proud of what I was able to accomplish with my blackjack game and it's all because I stuck with the course since the beginning of the year and gave my full effort.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

In my opinion, roadblocks are the most given part of programming and even life in general. It's perfectly okay to hit a roadblock, but
that also isn't a reason to completely abandon the task and get sidetracked. Bugs, confusion, and lack of motivation will always happen when you hit a roadblock, and it's okay to take a break and comeback. I never experienced much lack of motivation, but when bugs kept popping up during my final quest I just had to embrace it and do the work. Luckily I had a whole semester of preparation for the quest so when I encountered the bugs I was able to add and find some sort of a solution for them. The specific technique that helped me was just tracing the code in my head based on a certain assert case that wasn't working or an incorrect output. I'd comb over the code and see which if statements it should enter and add print statements in them if needed. While I don't have advice for a roadblock due to lack of motivation, if you have been strugling with a bug for a long time, my number one recommendation is to take a break, but also be prepared to come back and look over the same code, even if it's backbreaking. 

## What’s Next for You?

In terms of my academics, I want the skills I learned with time management to transfer over to my other classes next year. I've hear that junior year is the hardest year at Uni, so I will need to manage my time as well as possible, maybe even set timelines for myself, so that I can experience similar success in my other classes. Another skill that will definitely show up in the future is problem-solving. I think coding is the best teacher of problem-solving, because the arduous debugging process directly trains and enhances your ability to take a problem and come up with a way to reach a solution, like tracing the code. I imagine that in any college major or career I go down, effective problem-solving will be at the minimum a helpful tool.

---
