---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - More Mini Issues"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

Today I set out to fix the problems I've had with aces and the fact I have to store them as a different data type. I needed a way to
still track the total of the player's cards even if they had aces. This is an issue becauese aces means you can have more than one 
possible total. So I wanted to devise a method that separately counted the total in the case that there is a an ace in the player's hand.
If I had time after that, I wanted to start the stand part of my function.

---

### What I Actually Did

Today I focused on the issue with aces which required me to create a new list called options. While I've had this list since a couple days
ago, the main issue was that hitting and getting an ace didn't work, because the data type is a list and not a integer. I introduced quite
a few if-statements on what to do if the card you hit is an ace and if your initial hand contained an ace. After that I breifly started the
stand part of the funcion, so it could recognize blackjack. I also added a condition to check if the player busted after every time the
player hits.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed


One thing that I noticed is that the deck resets after every time it deals a card, so, while it's unlikely, you can get duplicates which
is a major issue. However, this issue might have to be put on the backburner because I'm pretty swamped with the main funciton. I also 
noticed something more philosphical or emotion, which is that while I recognize and slightly regret picking such a hard task, the fact 
it is hard makes all the mini successes and debugs feel way better along the way, so rather than complaining I'm trying to "enjoy the journey"
and live in the moment.

---

### What's Next

On Sunday, I want to make sure all the issues with aces are resolved. Then I want to move onto the dealer's hitting section. Those two are
big parts of the game so hopefully I can finish all those today, and be in a very good place to submit on time. If I have extra time left
it would be good to fix the mini issues like the rare times where the deck doesn't reset.





