---
layout: post
title: "Day 5 - Final Push"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

My goal for today was to quickly address any major issues noticed after running the code a few times, like tracking multiple aces in a
hand or not reseting the deck after every deal, and then quickly move on to the dealer part of the function. In my mind the dealer part
should have been similar enough to the player part so it would be an effortless part that I saved for last.

---

### What I Actually Did

While I was aiming to only focus on the small/unlikely problems for a brief period time, I got caught up in them and spent quite a bit of 
time successfully fixing the problems with aces after hitting. Then I attempted to fix the problem where there are once in a while
duplicates of cards, but any and all attempts I made were futile. So then after wasting too much time on that I moved onto the dealer part
of the function. I did that by basically copy and pasting all the code for the player part and changing variable names. However there are
still many parts that need to be changed because they were specifically designed for the player, like all the input statements. 

---

### What I Learned or Noticed


As the deadline approaches even closer, I've fully realized that I won't be able to submit a 100% fully functional code, because there
is always going to be some issue. I really need to finish the bulk of the code so that it at least works 80-90% of the time. As far as
I'm concerned that would be a success for me considering this project has been completely just me and my logic without any outside help.
Also the betting side of the function will probably have to be scrapped.

---

### What's Next

The only thing left to do is finish the bulk of the code, but the coming day(s) will be extremly hard because I'm sure errors will occur
in many different places as I go along with the dealer side of my code. Tomorrow I just want to have a completely "done" code in the 
sense that you can run it and play it successfully most of the time.




